---
layout: post
title: An SSD
modified:
categories: hardware
description:
tags: [hardware, samsung]
image:
  feature:
  credit:
  creditlink:
  background:
comments: false
share: true
published: true
date: 2015-07-15T09:59:38-04:00
---

Just recently I bought a Samsung 850 SSD, along with an HDD bay to replace my CD drive.

I switched the SSD to be my boot drive, and the HDD is all my old data.

My computer now boots in 4 seconds. (Not counting time to unlock the disk encryption, about 2 seconds, plus typing in my long passwords...)

My old drive has been getting old, I was struggling to pull 5 MB/s from it when I needed, and I knew it wasn't gonna hold up for much.  
Choosing an SSD to replace it was the best upgrade to my computer since I bought it.

No more I/O blocking, no more long waits on package installations, and games appear to load many times faster.  
Although I still have most of my games on my HDD, having the OS on an SSD frees up I/O on the disk so I can start pulling 80 MB/s from it when needed.

{% capture images %}
	/images/hdd-benchmark-july.png
	/images/ssd-benchmark-july.png
{% endcapture %}
{% include gallery images=images cols=2 %}

Of the many things I noticed after switching drives, is that just by booting from a different drive, my HDD appears to have gained performance. I'm not sure why, possibly the `deadline` scheduler didn't handle under pressure so well.

Although of course, that's nothing compared to the *just as promised* 520 MB/s from the 850 SSD. If you're buying a hard drive and don't mind paying some 20% more for it, the performance is absolutely worth it.

TLDR; Bought an SSD, reduced time to start things by 90% and increased performance dramatically.
